Let's review this testing chapter
by doing an end of Chapter lab.
Starting with the lab test-review start script,
we get our usual Quarkus conference
collection of microservices.
We will first going to work on
the schedule microservice.
If we look at the tests,
we do have a single Java test.
The other one is a native one.
Now if we have a look at this test,
we can see that it's got a testRetrieve
and a testAdd,
and a testAllSchedules method
and then finally testRetrieveByVenue.
These all basically exercise
the microservice somehow,
but we are missing set a of annotations
to even access the microservice.
So if we try to run the test,
they will fail because first of all,
they won't even start Quarkus,
you just get a Connection
refused errors and all fails.
So what do we need to do?
Well, we need to edit that
ScheduleResourceTest.java file
of course. We need to import
the annotations and add them
to the top of the class,
so QuarkusTest and the TestHTTPEndpoint injecting
the ScheduleResource endpoint
into the test class. Let's,
if we run the test again,
the situation is a little bit better.
But we now have some issues with
the Datasource complaining about an
unknown host exception and of course,
failing the tests as well because the
Quarkus container fails to start.
So what we need to do is, we need to add
the derby test extension to manage the
database lifecycle during testing.
And we need to edit the
ScheduleResourceTest file again,
adding the QuarkusTestResource annotation,
pointing to the
DerbyDatabaseTestResource,
of course, adding both
imports, the class as well.
And what we also need to do is
to edit application.properties
adding the quarkus.datasource.
jdbc.url for the test profile
only because we are going
to actually use a local database
and we are going to create
it upon startup as well.
Now there we go and start the test.
My problem was that by adding
the test extension, I've actually
accidentally gotten the version
test instead of a scope test,
that's why the previous failure.
So I had to fix this, io.quarkus, quarkus-test-
derby must be in scope test.
Now if I rerun the tests,
there we go, startup is correct.
Tests all execute successfully.
So we can now move on to
our speaker microservice.
Speaker microservice has a
SpeakerResourceTest as well.
If we have a look at it,
it's just got 2 test methods.
One is the testNewSpeaker,
the other one is the testListAll
The testNewSpeaker creates
a new UUID and then sends a JSON
block to the speaker endpoint.
And expect the uuid that
is returned
from the endpoint to be
actually equal to this generated UUID now. Unfortunately,
that is not the case because
the method that creates a new speaker
in turn invokes a speakerDAO.
SpeakerDAO actually invokes the
generator.generate method
and if we have a look at
what the generator is,
it is an IdGenerator instance
injected into that class.
If we look at just
what a class it implements,
it implements the idgenerator.IdGenerator interface, that's this one.
And this is the implementation.
So if we look at the interface, it's
just got a generate String method.
And the implementation itself actually
uses the randomUUID generation,
which means that our UUID is actually
never going to match whatever
we get from the invocation in the test.
What we need to do then is we need to
override the randomUUID generator
with the DeterministicIdGenerator.
So for that purpose, we are going to
open the DeterministicIdGenerator,
we are going to annotate it as
a Mock and as a Singleton, such
that there is only ever going to
be 1 instance of it in the JVM.
So both the web service and our tests
are going to use this generator.
We are going to also change the
SpeakerResourceTest class in order
to inject the DeterministicIdGenerator and
actually simply overriding
the generated uuid
by asking the idGenerator
to actually override it.
By the way, I made a typo here,
there's small g, it should
have been a capital G.
So I am just going to fix it.
There we go. Running the test.
We see that one test
has actually succeeded.
But the second test,
the testListAll is still
failing. What do we do?
It's getting 0 results,
but it expects, sorry!
it expects 0 results,
but it gets 5.
This is because of the
initialization during the startup.
So what we need to do is we need to
mock the record that we are
manipulating in that method.
So we will add quarkus-panache-
mock extension to the project.
And we are going to further modify the
SpeakerResourceTest a little bit.
Just importing panache.mock and Mockito
and the Collections utility class,
now, instead of using the
actual speaker resource,
the speakerDAO, sorry, the object,
we are going to use PanacheMock
to mock it to get an instance,
a mock instance of it.
And we are going to simply say,
whenever someone invokes the listAll
static method on the Speaker,
just return an empty Collection.
That should fix the
expectation on the test.
And it does, we get 2
successful test executions.
Now for the last one, we move
over to microservice-vote.
We are simply going to add the quarkus-junit5-mockito extension to pom.xml.
And then looking at the tests,
we have RatingStatsResourceTest here.
If we have a look at what each problem is,
is that it's only test
method is unimplemented.
So what it's going to
do is basically it's
just simply going to create a vote and
then try to extract the 3 consecutive
ratings that were submitted.
What we are going to use is, we are
going to mock this Session
RatingDAO in this class.
So we need Mockito.
We need the static import
for ArgumentMatchers
and we need to use the
InjectMock annotation,
so there it is.
Least amount of work just
asking Mockito, look,
dream one up and inject it into this field.
Then we configure the desired behavior,
saying that whenever someone
invokes getRatingsBySession,
looking for rating stats per session,
we simply return threeConsecutiveRatings which
are configured actually
a couple of lines above.
There they are.
And by running the tests as a MongoDB
that starts up an embedded MongoDB.
By running the tests, we can see
that we have a full success.
So now let's just grade
the review exercises.
When getting all the passing scores,
we can clean up using lab
test-review finish.
That's it for the testing chapter,
so join us in the next one where
we discuss secure communications.